[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
set this up real simply,
lets imagine we have a function called
foo that returns us something and
I'm gonna start easy,
I'm gonna start with an array.
Let's say it returns us an array like [1,
2, 3].
And then we wanna consume that value,
in some other part of our program.
So we're gonna to call foo and what we're
gonna get back is an array which is great,
we can say var array and
get back that array.
But what if,
in that part of our code we need to
individually reference different values?
We don't wanna say, arr of 0, arr of 1,
what if we want lexical names to
reference in like for example a, b and c.
So, what you might be
in the habit of doing,
is something like assigning
this the tmp variable and
then creating individual assignments.
>> Kyle Simpson: Whether you knew it or
not, this practice has a sort of general
category name in that
practice is destructuring.
And that term,
that idea of manually destructuring,
the way to think about what that means is
to take a structure llike an object or
an array, and to deconstruct it down into
its constituent parts through assignment.
So really,
destructuring is an assignment operation.
It's taking some bigger thing and
assigning off its individual parts,
into different variables.
We can do so manually.
But this of course,
is the imperative version.
And it's not too complicated right now,
because there's only three of them.
But we can start to throw more and more
bits into the process and very quickly,
that imperative code is gonna get
super complicated to read through and
understand.
So now, we wanna look to does JavaScript
give us an option and the answer is yes,
it does give us an option.
A declarative form of this
destructuring assignment.
So same code.
We'll start with the foo.
But now what we're gonna talk about,
is what's called array destructuring.
This is gonna look strange.
It's gonna look strange if you're
in the habit of trying to think
syntactically about what you're writing,
this is going to be something new that
you haven't seen in JavaScript before.
What we're gonna do is, and
I won't even put this part yet.
I'll put on the other side
we're gonna take the foo value,
the return value from the foo call,
and we're gonna destructure it.
The way we're gonna destructure it is,
we're gonna declare over here
something that looks like an array but
it's not an array.
And that array looking thing
that's not actually an array,
is going to say where we'd
like stuff to be assigned.
It's basically gonna list out a set
of targets for those assignments.
So we could say something like a,
b, and c.
So, it looks like an array on
the left hand side of an assignment.
If it were an array, this would be
a nonsense statement because there's
no such thing as having an array
being the source of an assignment.
And array is a value.
It is the I'm sorry,
there's no such thing as making
array the target of an assignment.
It is always the source of an assignment,
because it's a value.
Butt this isn't an array what this is,
is a pattern.
There is an analog that's similar
not the same but similar in other
programming languages that you may have
heard of before, called pattern matching.
This is not real pattern matching,
but it's kind of in the same vicinity.
Because what we're saying to JavaScript
is I'm going to declare a pattern,
that describes what sort of
value I'm expecting here.
And I want you to take that pattern and
do the work for me.
So what we're doing is saying,
we are expecting an array that
has at least three values here.
And we would like for
you JavaScript engine to take that value,
deconstruct it down to
its individual parts and
take the item in the first position,
assign it to a variable called a.
The item in the second position
to a variable called b.
And the item in the third
position to a variable called c.
It's a declaration of a pattern for
assignment, rather than telling JavaScript
how to do the assignment, we're saying
this is the end result that we want.
>> Kyle Simpson: Are you following me?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
it won't be obvious yet why.
But it will as we go along.
That I'm gonna say.
As soon as you have more than like two or
three of these, you're not gonna
wanna put these all on one line.
Just like it's not a good idea to try to
put your arrow functions all on one line
just cuz, so you look elite.
I think you're gonna
wanna spread these out.
Now, something about JavaScript
developers that I know is that,
we are absolutely allergic to
white space and new lines.
We do everything that we possibly can to
get rid of this unnecessary white space in
new lines.
It's absolutely ridiculous to me, because
white space and new lines are free.
And they're one of the best tools
that we can use for readability.
So I'm gonna say, stop that habit
of yours of trying to look for
every possible way to get
stuff up onto another line.
Use new lines, and white space,
and indentation liberally.
Because it's one of the best ways that
you can make your code more effective
at communication.
Look for the opportunities that you have,
to format your code in such a way
that it will be more readable.
So what I've just done is break,
broken those out onto another line as
opposed to putting them all in one line.
Won't be terribly obvious yet
why I did that but
you'll see in just a moment, why I really
think you're going to want to get in
the habit of putting your destructuring
patterns broken out across multiple lines.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Breaking it out across
multiple lines also has that side effect
if you use something like git.
Of making your difs more clear-
>> Kyle Simpson: True.
>> Speaker 2: When I've added one value,
so.
>> Kyle Simpson: Very true.
That's not really anything about
destructuring, but you're absolutely true.
If you break things on to multiple lines,
and
git obviously makes its differences
in a line based sort of way.
So, it's a lot easier when
you have multiple lines,
to know where the differences are.
Of course, now we have the problem of
coma first or coma last with gits or
whatever, but that's a separate issue.
And by the way, you can do trailing comas.
So, you can get a little away from
the get problems if you want to.
So what we said here is go break this
thing down and assign these things.
Now what would happen if
the array that we a that we got
back actually had fewer values.
But just think about it from a processing
perspective what would happen
is exactly what you would expect, which
is it would try to go to the array value.
And it would look for an item in position
two, because we said we're expecting
an item in position two, what would
it get back if it said array of two?
It would get back undefined.
Because that's not a present
value in our array.
So c is still gonna work,
the assignment is just going to be
that c's starts out as undefined.
So, it's totally okay for
our pattern to account for
more values than we actually get.
It's also okay to get back more
values than we account for.
If we only account for these three,
the value 4 that comes back.
That gets silently thrown away.
No big deal.
>> Kyle Simpson: So this pattern does not
have to be a fully inclusive pattern,
it can be a partial pattern for
the stuff that we care about.
That's the point I'm trying to make.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Can you have
default values in that?
>> Kyle Simpson: We're getting there.
We're getting there, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: This pattern says I'm
expecting something kind of in this shape.
Let me give you a scenario, and
it's not gonna look obvious yet.
But let me give you a scenario,
where I really think this starts to shine.
You call a function or get some value back
from say an API call to some JSON API.
And you get back some big complex
object of arrays, of objects and
all that other stuff.
And you wanna reference things, three or
four levels deep down inside of this
one part of this big object that
you know you're getting back.
You wanna reference those
with lexical variables.
What do you do, you end up doing some
really complicated version of what
we have on the left where it says,
tmp of 0.a of 3.foo.bar.baz of 1 and
going really, really deep and
all this crazy nesting into it.
And now your code is super imperative and
super confusing.
Or, you can declare a nice
clean pattern that says,
this is the shape of stuff
I'm expecting to get back and
if I get something that matches the shape
I want you to make these assignments.
That's the difference between
declarative an imperative here.